A Method of Confessing and Pledging through the Four Powers
by Lobzang Chökyi Gyaltsen

Namo guru mañjughoṣāya!
For those who wish to confess misdeeds, what follows is the incomparable remedy for harmful
actions and downfalls. The way to practise the essence of the four powers is as follows. Clean
the place of practice, set up supports of enlightened body, speech and mind, and arrange
extensive offerings before them. Settle on a comfortable seat, and take refuge and generate
bodhicitta as many times as possible, ensuring that you do not merely mouth the words
but really integrate the practice with your mind. Invite the field of merit with the lines
beginning, “Three Jewels, together with your attendants, pervading the whole of space and
time...” Consider that the guru and Three Jewels are present, filling the space before
you. Then offer the seven branches, with pure visualization, using the lines from, “In all
the worlds throughout the ten directions” to “All this I dedicate towards complete awakening”.
Then, like a forceful culprit relying on a form of support, consider how you and others—all
sentient beings—have committed misdeeds and accumulated downfalls throughout beginningless
time. As a result, you risk falling into the three lower realms and experiencing
the terrors of saṃsāra. You must therefore rely on the unfailing refuge, the guru and Three
Jewels in the sky before you, and entrust yourself entirely, heart and soul, to them. Recite
the lines beginning “Leader, victorious one, protector of all...” three times. If, as
a practitioner, you know how to direct your motivation, all the other powers are complete
here too, but the practice up to here relates mainly to the power of support.

drenpa nyammé shakyé gyalpo dang
Unequalled guide, king of the Śākyas,
dorjé nyingpö rabtu jompa sok
Vajra Essence who Utterly Subdues
sangye so nga deshek pawo dün
And the remainder of the thirty-five buddhas, together with the seven heroic sugatas,
nyikmé gönpo deshyin shekpa gyé
Eight tathāgatas, protectors in this time of degeneration,
kalzang drenpa tubpé nyima tong
Thousand sun-like sages, guides for the Fortunate Aeon,
marmé dzé dang tubwang jam gön sok
Dīpaṃkara, lord of sages, protector Maitreya,
dü sum gyalwa sé ché tamché la
And others—buddhas of the three times, together with your heirs,
chaktsal chö ching nying né kyab su chi
We pay homage to you, make offerings and sincerely take refuge:
dakchak ngensong sipé jik lé kyob
Protect us from the lower realms and threats of existence!
Reciting this from the depth of your heart provides the antidotal power.

chok dü küntu shyukpé gyal nam dang
Victorious buddhas of every place and time,
tukjé cheden gyalsé pawo nam
And great compassionate bodhisattva warriors,
tsewé tuk kyi dak la gong su sol
Consider me with your loving wisdom minds.
dak gi tokmé dü né danté bar
Throughout beginningless time until now,
duk sum wang gi tsammé nyewa nga
Overpowered by the three poisons, I have committed the five boundless crimes,
mi gé chu dang chok sum kor trok sok
And ten unwholesome actions, plundered the property of the Three Jewels,
jikrung ngensong sum dang mikhompé
And carried out acts that lead to rebirth in fearsome destinies
né su kyé gyur mi gedik pé lé
And inopportune states—both naturally negative deeds
ché dang rangshyin khana mato ba
And those that involve an infringement of the rules.
gyi dang gyi tsal jesu yirangwa
I have committed, requested and rejoiced at such acts.
nö shying gyöpé chab ching mi bepar
With regret and remorse, I openly acknowledge all, withholding nothing.
jik shing trakpé gönpo nam kyi drung
Anxiously, I join my palms together before these great protectors,
go sum güpé talmo jar jé té
Expressing devotion and respect physically, verbally and mentally.
sampa takpé yang dang yang du shak
And sincerely and repeatedly, I offer this confession:
tsewé tuk kyi nongpar zung du sol
In your loving wisdom, forgive these wrongs, I pray!
Recite this and reflect on the meaning. This is the power of repentance.

pongpé nyen chok lumé kyab kyi pul
Supreme remedy in deprivation, most excellent, unfailing refuge,
dü sum deshek sé ché nam la
Bliss-gone buddhas of the three times together with your heirs,
chok tu güpé taljar solwa ni
With the utmost devotion, I join my palms together and pledge:
ngensong ngendro mikhom gyé nam su
That which leads to the various miseries and all that is unwished for
mindö dukngal natsok jungwé go
In the lower realms, evil destinies and eight inopportune states
lü ngak yi kyi diktung mi gé lé
Is non-virtuous action—downfalls and harmful deeds of body, speech and mind,
deng né chinché shintu trawa yang
So from this moment on, I shall refrain from the slightest non-virtue,
mi gyi sok dang dö té yangdak dom
Even at the cost of my own life—this is my commitment!
Recite this while considering the meaning. This is the practice that accomplishes the power
of refraining from wrongdoing
As a conclusion, seal the practice with dedication and prayers of aspiration. Request forgiveness
and if you have a supporting image request the deities to remain; if not, request their
departure. Moreover, since the four powers are also complete in both the visualization
and recitation of Vajrasattva and the confession of downfalls based on the thirty-five buddhas,
and these are excellent methods of confessing misdeeds please practise them as well.
Even if thick dark clouds of misdeeds and downfalls gatherTo obscure the brilliant sunlight
of benefit and happiness,And bring a thunderous rain of unendurable suffering,This instruction
on confessing and pledging through the four powersScatters and powerfully disperses them
in a single instant.Therefore, ascend the staircase of lapis lazuli,Leading to the higher
realms and goodness,And even the names of such afflictionsAs birth, ageing, sickness and
death will not arise.And since, like a wish-fulfilling jewel among beings,This bestows
the supreme gift, all those wishing to travelTo the city of omniscience should take it to
heart!

Thus, when the great abbot of Ganden hermitage insistently requested a brief means of confessing
and pledging based on the four powers that could be recited regularly, the wandering
monk Lobzang Chökyi Gyaltsen wrote this at once in the place of gathering sunlight, the upper
storey of his chamber of Tashilhunpo. Oṃ ye dharmā hetu prabhāvā hetuṃ teṣāṃ tathāgato
hyavadat teṣāṃ ca yo nirodha evaṃ vādī mahāśramaṇaḥ svāhā. May auspiciousness reign!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2019.