Rays of Moonlight to Dispel the Darkness of Misdeeds
by Lobzang Chökyi Gyaltsen

Namo guru śākyamunaye!
dü sum chok chur shyukpa yi
Respectfully, I take refuge
sangye sé dang ché nam la
In all the buddhas and their heirs
changchub nyingpor chi kyi bar
Throughout the three times and ten directions,
güpé kyab su chiwar gyi
Until I reach the essence of enlightenment!

lumé kyab kyi chok nam la
With my palms together, I pray
talmo jar té solwa ni
To the supreme, unfailing source of refuge:
tserab di’am shyendak tu
In this and all my other lives,
nyönmong duk sum wang gyurpé
Overwhelmed by afflictions and the three poisons,
lü dang ngak dang yi go né
Physically, vocally and mentally,
tsammé nga dang nyewa nga
I have committed the five boundless crimes, five deeds of approximate gravity,
mi gé lam chu gyipa nam
And ten non-virtuous forms of action—
sampa takpé gön la shak
From the depths of my heart, I confess them all to you, my protectors.

könchok sum dang lama dang
Whatever I have done to harm or injure
pama sok dang shyendak la’ang
The Three Jewels or the guru,
nö ching tsewa chi gyi pa
My own parents or anyone else besides,
tamché nying né shakpar gyi
I confess from the depths of my heart!

jikrung nyalwa yidak dang
All the evil actions that lead to rebirth
düdro takhob lalo dang
In the dreaded hells or in the preta realms,
lenkuk lokta chen sok su
Among animals or barbarians of the borderlands,
kyé gyur lé ngen malü shak
Or as uncomprehending or wrong-viewed, I confess!

nor dang langtso tob sok kyi
Whatever I have done to belittle or harm others
ngagyal drekpé shyendak la
Out of my own arrogance and pride
nyé shing nampar tsé jepa
Based on wealth, youth, strength and the like,
tamché kyang ni shakpar gyi
I now confess it all!

dorna ngönto ngelek dang
In short, whatever I have done unwittingly
künkhyen yangdak drubpé gek
To obstruct attainment of the higher realms,
mi shé wang gi sakpa nam
Definitive goodness or genuine omniscience,
shintu gyöpé sem kyi shak
I now confess with intense feelings of remorse!

chepa dang ni rangshyin gyi
Whatever negative acts I have committed
khana mato dikpé lé
Or rejoiced in when done by others—
gyi dang gyi tsal yi rangwa
Both natural and proscribed misdeeds,
chichi yongsu shakpar gyi
I now thoroughly confess them all!

tukjé cheden gyal nam dang
Victorious ones endowed with great compassion,
gyalsé daknyi ché nam kyi
And the great beings who are your bodhisattva heirs,
dikden dak la tser gong la
Lovingly consider me—a wrongdoer—
nyé kün dakpar dzé du sol
And purify all my harmful actions, I pray!

ngönché mi gé gyipa la
Feeling regret for my past non-virtues
duk tung shyindu gyösem kyi
As I would for having imbibed poison,
lenché sok gi chir yang ni
I vow never to act that way again even for a moment
kechik tsam yang mi gyi do
And even at the cost of my life!

detar shak shing dampa yi
Through whatever merit I have gained
sönam dak gi chi tobpa
By confessing and pledging in this way,
dé ni dak dang drowa kün
May I and all other living beings
nyurdu changchub tob gyur chik
Swiftly attain awakening!

Thus, in response to the insistent requests of Nangso Tashi Rabten, the monk Lobzang Chökyi
Gyaltsen freely composed this text entitled “Rays of Moonlight to Dispel the Darkness of Misdeeds”.
May virtue and goodness increase! The scribe was the novice Lobzang Wangyal.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2019.